what's going on everybody and welcome to
today's episode of learning from the
pros joining me today is Brandon Alysa
glue sharing his top 10 tips for ABM
advertising he is uh an ABM practitioner
and he has just started a new
consultancy called insights to ignite
Brandon welcome glad to have you yeah hi
Sylvia excited to be here and excited to
dig into some ABM tips why don't we just
kick off to the audience uh to the ad
conv verision Community here and just
kind of give a quick background on on
yourself and kind of your experience
with ABM and and kind of how you've gone
to this point yeah it's really been a an
interesting Road as many marketers
started off as an attorney few years ago
before getting into content with places
like Bleacher Report and eventually
getting over to agencies and analytics
and SEO and all that great stuff before
moving over to the paid side and then
kind of learning we can drive all the
leads we want but if they're not the
right leads it doesn't matter and the
best way to find the right leads the
right accounts account based marketing
go after the people you need kick us off
with the first tip Brandon yeah along
those lines of finding the right people
is you need to keep in mind that you
need to play the long game I know a lot
of folks love to talk about that
marketing but we've all been in those
meetings where we need a shot and arm
for pipeline right now we got to get
these quarters numbers up that's not
what abm's for ABM is all about creating
engagement with the right accounts so
start with things like education let
them get to know who you are it's much
more like a dating process than anything
else uh I found in marketing and just
running a bunch of Google ads hoping to
collect a bunch of demand generation so
the big takeaway here is stop running
demo ads at accounts that don't know who
you are have never gauged with you
they're not going to bite and they're
not going to marry you right away away
pretty good tip I'm I'm just thinking
you know maybe people listening to this
are like you know Brandon that sounds
great but I I need pipeline yesterday
how can I play the long game how long is
long enough you know kind of how do you
think about that yeah and that's where a
good account scoring system uh will help
you identify accounts that are properly
in market right now are closer in that
buying cycle a lot of times you can look
at the activities that they're taking
that past opportunities took before
becoming an opportunity before saying
yes to the demo request and that's where
you can say okay these people have been
on our website a ton uh they're opening
our emails they clicked these ads now we
know that these are the wants to go on
Target right now with those demo
requests so of course there'll always be
somebody that generally is engaging with
you already so go ahead put them at the
bottom of the funnel try to hit them you
know over with those value props and
that urgency to get them into a demo
call today uh but otherwise yeah long
game make sure that your targets are set
as far as these are the people we want
to understand who we are before we start
asking them to demo that's awesome just
to break that out a little bit for
everyone listening let's say you have a
list of 100 counts right
and you identified through whatever tool
you're using 20 of them are in Market
they're already on your website maybe
they requested a demo start there launch
your ABM program there in terms of
trying to get those accounts over the
threshold so that they actually can turn
into pipeline before you start to action
against the other 80 that have never
been to your website maybe they don't
even know who you are they've never had
any interaction with you before yeah
absolutely and of skipping bit down into
a different tip and I'm just going to go
ahead and shoehorn it in right here if
that's all right yeah that's where we
have the kind of dosier of information
that we're going to hand off to sales
we're going to take all of that uh the
ads that they've clicked the sites that
they or the the certain pages on your
website that they've really read or or
shared around as well as any emails or
opening or anything they might have even
sent to you in a chat and take that put
that in a DOA for your sales team so now
when it's time for them to do their
Outreach and you are pairing that with
onetoone messaging to really get that
demo request or get that uh next big
meeting out of the way you can
personalize it even more so you know
what they like you know what their
paying points are Hammer them with that
in a personalized way uh when you get to
that bottom of the funnel so you can get
those demo requests and open up those
opportunities nice that's awesome so
would you say having a third-party tool
for ABM is is necessary to to to
activate against this it's not necessary
but it certainly helps so there's uh a
lot of good Buzz out there about Scrappy
ABM is one company in particular that I
follow that they're really about getting
you started in your ABM program and you
don't need to buy the big expensive Tech
stack right away and he's not wrong it's
Mason Cosby you know a lot of good
content over there uh but when you are
getting deep into these situations and
deep in your ABM and you're trying to
scale up having that type of tech that
could take all that data process it and
make it easy to report and share with
sales what's going on and also run your
targeted ads for you uh in most cases
it's definitely a time saer and it's
definitely going to save you a lot of
headaches and a lot of manual work yeah
and it probably makes a lot of sense
like if you can't get early traction
already proof of concept don't feel like
you need to just jump right in lock in
with a 12-month contract with you know
most of these platforms or 12 Monon
contracts it's like get your MVP off the
ground essentially get traction then
take it to the next level right y have
something to show your CFO before you go
asking for tens and maybe even hundreds
of thousands of dollars to get off the
ground but when you do have it and it's
connected to your CRM and Linkedin and
everything else it does make things fly
a lot faster that's great I just want to
recap Point number two there so tip
number two was to create that dossier of
information so essentially you know your
accounts are consuming certain types of
content on your site you know that
they're interested in certain things if
there are already in the sales process
maybe they've mentioned certain things
they're interested in overcoming
essentially you're creating this dossier
of information to arm your salesperson
to then go ahead and engage the prospect
with the most relevant content and at
the same time you can now use that
information in your ads so this is where
it gets a little bit more of a manual
process than the fact that you will have
to create these ads that have a message
that is strictly for them but if you're
working on a big deal that you're trying
to close that little bit of extra effort
can go a long way towards getting your
foot the door and hopefully land expand
and do all those great things with abs
this this comes into now we're talking
about acceleration campaign specifically
from a paid perspective so now it's like
you know you know you got Microsoft in
pipeline hypothetically and they voiced
these you know just uh adding on to that
one of the things that we found works
really well is when you're running
acceleration campaigns what we like to
do is we like to do objection campaigns
and social proof campaigns so what we do
is we work closely with sales we say hey
what are the top 10 objections that are
coming up from these list of accounts
that we have as an open up one of the
biggest challenges though we've run into
is like audience size so typically what
we do is we if the deal isn't large
enough to Target individually we'll
Target a list of open opportunities and
we'll ask for like those shared common
pain points and objections and then what
we do from there is we create ads and
content specifically addressing each
objection and then we'll measure the
engagement and response rate of the ads
click for each objection so it's kind of
it's kind of meta cuz it's like you know
price is an objection and it's like
we'll run these ads like basically
overcoming that specific objection so
it's like you and I are on a sales call
maybe we have a call booked on Monday
but then you're on LinkedIn and you see
this ad saying like concerned about
price here's six reasons why you know
blah blah blah you should justify this
investment or like it's a social proof
campaigns where it's basically like in
feed and it's like those Folks at ad
conversion are amazing you know or like
uh
so on and so forth and kind of like you
know kind of instilling into that
acceleration play yeah absolutely that's
that's a great point I like that
strategy especially with the top 10
objections I'm I'm going to steal that
go for it h tip number three and I think
we'll we'll jump back into it as far as
where I was looking at before but make
sure you're going deeper with these so
you're playing the long game and you're
really getting deep into with your Dosa
of information you got there because
when people clicked on certain ads you
knew that you needed to go down that
path with them so you kind of have your
your broad your education your Ed
awareness ads at the top and now you
start to narrow in on the pain points
that they select make sure you're giving
them to the right page to help them go
further into their own story so just as
they're getting to know you like we
talked about before with you're not
asking them to get married right away
you're not asking them for that demo
request when they don't know your name
you're getting to know them so all of
this leads into that dossier at the end
but at in the middle in that nice place
where where they're still kind of
figuring out what they want to know
about you make sure that your ads are
Dynamic enough in the sense that you're
looking at it every week or so to make
sure you are coming up with the right
ideas the right content that's going to
keep them engaging further I love that
so essentially what you're doing I
almost think of it as like you're
creating this buffet and you have this
buffet with all of these different meals
pieces of content that you feel would be
most helpful to these accounts based on
where they are right now essentially in
the buyer's Journey as as best as you
can segment based on what you're seeing
in your CRM and then from there they can
choose right oh maybe I'm interested in
this piece of content let me dive deeper
there and then that then informs the
dossier that you put later on so it's
almost like you're pushing this content
out so that one you get the benefit of
brand awareness and nurture right and
you're educating these folks but then in
a meta way they're creating your
Outreach later on because based on the
things that they're engaging with your
sales team in a perfect world would then
Outreach to them and kind of follow up
with more like context and
personalization exactly and this is why
it's nice to have that Tech stack to
keep all dis organized because as you
can guess it gets convoluted very
quickly but there's a lot to keep up on
but that's why when you work ABM
properly and you really get into where
their pain points are you can see a lot
of traction I love that uh just one tip
for everyone listening if you're if
you're thinking to yourself how am I
going to do this I don't have a Tech
Tool you know I don't want to invest in
that like just simple way is use
linkedin's demographic reporting so if
you're targeting your list of accounts
through linkedin's demographic reports
you can see which companies have been
exposed to Impressions which ones are
actually engaging and then if you can
take it a step further and then you can
leverage like a thirdparty data
connector to be able to pull the
demographic data from LinkedIn through
the API you get so many more insights
because when you report through the
demographic support on LinkedIn ative
platform you're limited to the amount of
Impressions by a company but when you
pull the data through the API I mean it
allows you to go I've seen as low as
like two Impressions per account and
then you can also see the engagement by
account as well and it's a really cool
way to kind of get away around those
limitations following up on that I think
in the next place I would go is this all
kind of gets to a thing I like to call
the so what and that's where when you're
looking through the data and you're
trying to figure out what it all means
one of the things that when I worked at
an agency people would just show reports
like okay our traffic went up why and
you know this keyword ranks wherever
third they never gave the so what and
that's what you could do with ABM I
think better than most other methods out
there is really lay out what that means
uh for your target audience so not just
the functionality or we'll save your
engineering team 20 hours a week what
does that mean like and somebody out
there uh can say well that's great but I
already have an engineering team that I
pay
this much money to be there so it's not
really doing anything for me what is the
actual outcome that's going to help my
company or me in that case maybe it's
I'm going to get promoted because I'm
bringing more to the table now so that's
really something to go along with the
drilling in uh going deeper playing the
long game make sure you're getting to
the so what and the outcome that we're
hoping to hit for them yeah my brain
immediately goes to this is the long
game and we live in an impatient world
you know where we want to we want to see
traction we want to see progress
rightfully so you know if you're
investing thousands of dollars into this
program if you're not setting up these
leading indicators across your funnel
it's like so what we got an impression
on this account I don't care but if you
can tie it to look this is part of our
funnel and this is part of the journey
and like we're moving these groups of
companies and users of these companies
and now they're here and then they're
here and I can almost imagine like as
you do this enough eventually you'll
start to make these inferences and
correlations where it's like well I
noticed like for example when I used to
run performance at metadata and like I
help build the programmatic program like
we noticed like once a certain amount of
companies get a certain level of
exposure in terms of Impressions the
likelihood of an influenced opportunity
being created was like you know 50x if
you set up that funnel properly and you
have those different Milestones then
you're able to tie it to the so what
right yeah exactly and that's where
another great part of this is we can
always AB test with any AD campaign and
you always should uh but in particular
you can really drill in it's drilling
down into that seniority entitle people
really need to take the time to think
about what their messaging is going to
be across their accounts by verticals by
segments whatever you might be doing uh
but the big thing is okay we have
account a and they are in this
particular vertical so we know we're
going to talk about uh that particular
functionality that we have but make sure
then you are then drilling down to we're
going to talk to our SE Suite like this
we're going to talk to the directors
like this and our managers are going to
get this message and now we know that
managers are worried about moving up to
directors directors may be moving up to
seite seite wants to show that they know
how to grow a company uh from 10 million
to 100 million or whatever it might be
so make sure that you're matching your
messaging to those personas and what
their actual desired outcomes are or
what matching their motiv ations and
there's a lot that can be said for
finding that messaging through the
testing so to combine a bit of these two
points is we're drilling down into these
titles we're drilling down into these
personas and we've created this
messaging Matrix based off that but now
make sure we're running two to three
different variations of that message so
maybe they don't really care about
motivation or maybe somebody doesn't
really care about being a director but
they want to be able to finish their job
well uh at the end of the day and not
have to work all night so you just got
to figure out what the right message is
for each group and it's a great way to
be able to test them to have a learning
that goes along with it like you were
just talking about with the so what it's
a bit of a different take on that
Brandon I hear what you're saying but
I'm just thinking about like what about
the person listening to this where
they're they're like you know I I want
to I would love to in a perfect world to
be able to create this unique experience
by job title or seniority but the
company that I'm going after is just not
large enough to be able to use
a job TI title filter according to
LinkedIn standards well there's a couple
different directions you can go there uh
you brought up earlier about like your
top 10 objections by verticals that'd be
a great place to start uh you could
definitely run those ads see what
connects um but the other thing I would
say is maybe that account isn't really
qualified for this approach if it's such
a small company that they don't have
that they don't have enough people to
where we could drill down to these
different seniority levels and hit them
the right messaging then I have to
wonder if they can afford uh your
offering because if you're running ABM
chances are you're running a high ticket
item uh and you probably should be if
that's the case otherwise I'm not sure
abm's the proper way to go anyways uh so
if they don't have enough employees to
consider filtering down to I would
reconsider whether that account should
be in your approach to start with if the
company isn't that large it's like
essentially it's not true ABM where it's
strategic and it's part of a larger
initiative and you're going out hunting
for whales essentially is kind of where
my brain goes right like we're not just
hunting sharks here we're hunting whales
and it
justifies all of this operational work
the content that goes into this so on
and so forth and if you're on the flip
side of that where you're like you don't
have a large enough account list or
company size to do this level of
differentiation around the audiences and
the filtering and the criteria then
really that's not ABM that's just more
targeted advertising because now you're
you're filtering it down even further
where it's not just anybody it's people
at these accounts that you know are
great which is totally great and you
should do it but for what we're talking
about here true ABM from a strategic
standpoint you need those larger
companies to be able to do this yeah I
mean if we could fit them into a one to
many Campaign which borderlines on
targeted demand generation there's a lot
of people love to talk about what
qualifies as this or that It ultimately
doesn't matter because good marketing is
just good marketing but if you're going
to put in all that effort in ABM and the
the investment financially that usually
comes with that I'd make sure that the
people that we're targeting are indeed
those whales got you do you have this is
a very case-by casee question but if you
had to say in your experience like
what's a large enough ACV generally
speaking that somebody's listening to
this right now and they're like hm does
strategic ABM is it a fight is it a road
that I should go down what would you say
is like just generally speaking if you
have an ACV greater than this it's
something you should consider I'd
probably go around $20,000 and that's
that's a benchmark I've seen put out
there uh but a different way I was
thinking about this um I recently posted
about this on LinkedIn was if your
contract requires a CFO sign off then
you probably need ABM because that means
that you're at least going to have to
Target that CFO and get him on board
because he's not going to sign he or she
is not going to sign a contract from a
company they've never heard of without
quite a bit of okay so what and there we
go going back to the so what and more
than likely you as a manager whoever you
might be you've got somebody else in
your department you got to get on board
so there's another uh instance of
specific messaging we have to get and
more than likely there's going to be an
operations uh Team whether it's
marketing or rev or sales offs whatever
we want to call it so now we're talking
three different messages already so
that's usually a good sign that we need
ABM is if a CFOs to sign off on it I
love that that's awesome uh so just to
recap the five tips we've gone through
so far tip number one play the long game
tip number two create that dossier of
information tip number three go deeper
tip number four so what and tip number
five drill into the seniority or title
then we also have the you don't need
fancy Tech and I kind of snuck that one
in there on you but it doesn't hurt one
thing i' I'd love to add to the go
deeper part that I didn't bring up
before if that's all right that's where
you really want to get into those
insights to create the right content
just like we were talking about right
before we jumped on if you don't have
the right content none of this matters
we can run all the best ads in the world
they won't get you over the hump when
those people get to your website and
look for that content based off of the
needs that they have so make sure you're
looking at those insights putting
together again that so what creating
that content that really allows you to
go deeper then continue drilling into
that pain set aside time every week to
ideate and create and this is one that I
have always struggled with I've had to
uh put in calendar blocking recently
that that's helped I don't always stick
to it and then I mess up my whole week
but it's so easy to be chasing you know
those leads and trying to get everything
going that if you can just set aside an
hour and I found Friday afternoons are
usually when nobody else is around and I
could take that time to do it to look at
those insights and just let my brain
start clicking off of what I'm seeing uh
just start you know putting down the 50
taglines you like you hear them saying
bad men oh we need you to come up with a
list of 50 taglines for whatever burger
restaurant it was I can't remember that
way you can have this list of things to
go to when it's time to start testing a
little bit more and really find out
what's working so if you're testing with
your AB testing you need to have the
ideas to try I love this so much this is
a top topc near and dear to my heart uh
around experimentation yeah uh th%
adding on to that for your experiments
you should be documenting them somewhere
I I always tell people you know it's
it'll feel like you're moving slower but
you end up moving faster in the long run
because everyone else is repeating the
same mistakes they made six months ago
and they just forgot about so you'll
continue to stack on your success and
build on your wins uh while other people
are just kind of in this constant Loop
of
ASAP and they never actually get
anywhere so absolutely get in the habit
I love that tip of just spending time to
think and ideate and review data so many
applications for that not even just from
like an ABM ads perspective or just
running ads but like as a founder and a
business leader or like a manager or
like whatever your function is spending
time to really think and idate and and
marinate on like the core problem I
think is something that like a lot of
lot people do and adding on to this even
more because it's so near and dear to my
heart is get in the habit of asking
yourself really good questions because
if you ask a great question you'll get a
great answer so for I'll just give
people one in the sense of like the
entrepreneurial space it's like what has
to happen in the next six months in
order to kill the company what a great
question right or like if we had to grow
100% through um word of mouth and
referrals and close down our website how
would we operate like great questions
like that just your brain just goes and
just Sparks so many ideas and and on
that note around like that scheduled
time Frid a maybe having a list of
questions you know like to think through
or like things to look at when you're
going through your review process I
think could just make it even more
productive yeah that's a great point
also around the documenting everything
uh that's huge in ABM and I'm now
wishing I'd put that in as a tip but
it's not necessarily just ABM in general
it's such a time timesaver when you can
be like hey here's the link I sent
before or per my last email we'll leave
that part out usually but this is the
process sales guy or sales gal yeah
let's go and everybody listening who's
like oh what what tech do you use like
to to document these experiments and
they're already over complicating in
their mind like whatever whatever works
you know like if it's a piece of paper
or a notes on your your iPhone or a
Google doc like keep it simple it's
better to do something consistently bad
than uh great a few times personally I
always use Google Docs and I use the
heading set or you can set it where
normal text or a heading and that way I
just create the big ones with headings
you can easily jump around on the left
with a table of contents it's saved me a
lot of time and obviously searchable
helped using templates to really help
accelerate all of this so if we're going
to take that time to drill in these
personas to figure out these pain points
and test all this stuff you need to have
something that you can just rip off copy
place it in display I and go uh and one
of the biggest shortcuts I found uh
through a little bit of pain my myself
was asking the designer to give me the
templates myself so I could pop them in
canva and just try a bunch of different
messaging it's a super simple step it's
not something that's going to set me
aside as some giant scholar uh but it is
will save you a ton of time so design
templates are key to doing all of this
testing get a design template created
and then from there you can iterate
essentially right so you can adjust the
copy of the headline on the creative you
can make those minor tweaks but you've
got the 90% of the work done essentially
yeah in addition to that too right like
if you're going after these list of
accounts you're going to be by
definition in a smaller audience size in
terms of linkedin's Def like standards
so that means you're going to rack up a
higher frequency faster meaning you're
going to need to refresh your creative
faster which by having these design
templates you can stay ahead of AD
fatigue uh even easier the 10th and
final tip going to be a little bit of a
shocker but don't skip Google ads and
it's not that we're necessarily of
course retargeting campaigns all that
great stuff you can kind of Target the
companies you want on there but that's
not really what I'm looking for here
customer questions Prospect questions
those types of things that they're
definitely going to put into Google to
find out the answer to are what can be
huge uh later on because then now you're
showing up to answer all of their
questions you're not just the guy who's
running a display ad at them talking
about their paino when they go to Google
their paino you're there giving them an
answer and the best part about a lot of
these questions they're cheap nobody's
worried about going after these types of
keywords uh great example from my time
at thought industry is we would we sold
an LMS well there was a new thing that
came out that was an lxp so the learning
management system versus I think a
learning experience platform something
like that but point being sales folks
were constantly getting this questions
we decided to capture uh salesperson's
answer to it transcribe it put it in a
blog and start sending it out via ABM
and run and it did so well that we
started running a Google ads campaign
for it because lxp versus LMS that
keyword was like Pennies on the dollar
it was so cheap compared to you know our
Target keywords that would be like $75 a
click so you now you're getting into
your you're getting your target audience
with a question they're going to answer
and of course not account uh that lands
on that blog page is going to be in your
target but that's not a bad thing
anyways it's you're still going to have
some demand generation efforts going on
so it's a way to kind of bridge that gap
between the two and and really cast a
widen it so just to run that back
because it's so important what you just
said and such a different way to put a
lens on Google ads because most people
when we're thinking about Google ads we
are thinking High intent so in the
example you gave I would be bidding on
like best learning management platform
right and I'd be paying $70 a clip for
it uh rightfully so what you're saying
here is you've identified some key
questions that are always coming up in
the sales process that then inspired
content that your team created and then
from there you were having such a good
job organically from that content
already just answering those questions
that it then led to the Insight of like
hey what if we actually put some money
behind this and covered it from a paid
search perspective and then that was a
huge unlock and the the benefit is it's
a unique way cuz the problem with search
is two people can search the same thing
and you're still going to pay the same
price Google doesn't discriminate you're
going to pay the same for the intern as
you are the CEO and it's it is what it
is the cool thing about this approach is
it's a way for you to get in front of
the right person because a specific kind
of person is going to search that thing
and then in addition to that it's uh
dramatically cheaper right than your
high intent keywords I'm curious on this
did you see a good enough search volume
or did you not care because you were
like hey this is if someone searches
this they're worth it yeah and that's
that's something where I really try to
drill into when I'm finding the right
insights like I was saying before to
ignite that customer growth is it's not
just about finding search volume it's
about finding the search volume that
matters so like you said anybody could
be searching that particular question
but if you know if a hundred people are
searching for that other question that
you pay a lot for and only five are
searching for this one that five is my
target audience anyways so it really
worked out well on that front and it
drove a ton of leads I believe the next
closest campaign as far as cost per lead
was 123% higher so it was by far our
best performer so just to recap these 10
golden nuggets of tips I don't want to
call it tips anymore golden nuggets is
number one play the long game number two
put together that dossier of information
so that you can serve different content
to the opportunities that matter number
three go deeper dynamically offer the
content to these accounts based on the
things that are resonating number four
so what always asking yourself so what
connecting what you're doing to the key
outcomes that they're leading to number
five is to drill into the personas and
titles and the seniority so you get a
level deeper and then from there the
next point is to test your different
value
propositions and then from there you
don't need any fancy Tech next set aside
time to id8 ideally an hour a week on
Fridays is what you found work best for
you but whatever that works for you as
the listener uh next up is to use design
templates to accelerate uh your campaign
iterations and then from there do not
sleep on Google ads and uh approach it
in a different perspective in terms of
covering those key questions that your
accounts are searching for Brandon thank
you so much for being here if people
want to connect with you where can they
find you yeah LinkedIn uh Brandon Alysa
glue you get find me under my name here
I'm also launching a consultancy
insights to ignite it'll be an email
course to really help you figure out how
to find those right insights build the
right content and then distribute it
whether it's s paid or ABF guys check
out Brandon connect with them on
LinkedIn uh definitely check out his
consultancy as soon as he launches and
Brandon thank you again for being here I
can't wait for people to hear this yeah
absolutely s thank you